Well, 100 classes ago,
in September of 1966,
the 42nd class of Gilead graduated.
Here’s their picture.
Now, if you look carefully
back in the left corner,
you’ll see a young man
who graduated on that day.
That is our beloved Brother David Splane.
And so it seemed appropriate
to mention this occasion,
being that it’s 100 classes ago.
I did say classes, not years.
We’re now looking forward
to hearing from our dear Brother Splane.
He is going to give us the talk
“Don’t Forget the Purpose.”
I’m glad they didn’t get ahold
of my baby picture.
That was my baby picture.
Well, I know
that all of you students will agree
that Gilead School
has been a marvelous expression
of Jehovah’s undeserved kindness
—a dream come true.
But, really,
all of us have been recipients
of Jehovah’s undeserved kindness
in so many ways.
All of us have received
training in so many ways.
So, really, the apostle Paul’s words
recorded at 2 Corinthians chapter 6
can apply to all of us.
Let’s look it up
—2 Corinthians chapter 6.
We’re going to read verses 1 and 2
—2 Corinthians 6:1, 2.
And here Paul writes:
“Working together with him,
“we also urge you
“not to accept
the undeserved kindness of God
and miss its purpose.”
That’s the theme of the talk,
“Don’t Forget the Purpose.”
And then verse 2 says:
“For he says:
“‘In an acceptable time I heard you,
and in a day of salvation I helped you.’
“Look!
Now is the especially acceptable time.
Look!
Now is the day of salvation.”
Now, let’s focus first of all
on the first words
that Paul writes here,
“working together with him.”
That really explains
why Paul’s ministry was such a success.
Now, Paul was a worker,
but it wasn’t enough to be a worker.
Paul’s ministry was successful
because Paul was working
together with Jehovah God.
It was Jehovah’s purpose that counted.
As Brother Samuelson
brought out this morning,
it was Jehovah’s agenda
that counted with the apostle Paul.
Well, our goal should be the same.
And we could be tested at times.
Perhaps back home
you’re waiting for a decision
and the decision
is a long-time coming.
And you could be tempted to run ahead
as we’ve heard this morning
—act on your own.
You’d be working.
But when that temptation arises,
keep repeating to yourself
“working together with him,”
and it’ll help.
It’ll help you to work within the bounds
that the organization has set.
And we heard about that
this morning as well.
Now, notice at the beginning of verse 2,
Paul has been doing some reading.
His first words are “for he says,”
and then Paul quotes Scripture.
And it will be useful for us
to look up the scripture
that Paul is quoting,
because it helps us
to understand his thinking.
When Paul was reading this verse,
or this passage,
what was it that helped him
to make the connection
with the idea of working
together with Jehovah?
The scripture, Isaiah 49:8, 9.
So let’s read that
—Isaiah 49:8, 9.
Now, as I read this,
I’d like you to see if you can guess
when this scripture
had its first fulfillment.
It has two fulfillments.
See if you can guess
when the scripture was first fulfilled.
Verse 8:
“This is what Jehovah says:
“‘In a time of favor I answered you,
“‘and in a day of salvation I helped you;
“‘I kept safeguarding you
to give you as a covenant for the people,
“‘to rehabilitate the land,
“‘to cause them to possess
“‘their desolate inheritances,
to say to the prisoners, “Come out!”’”
You got it?
Sure.
This scripture was fulfilled
when the Israelites were being released
from Babylonian captivity.
We have a few hints there:
“to rehabilitate the land,”
“desolate inheritances,”
“to say to the prisoners, ‘Come out!’”
But now,
they were released from Babylon,
but what was the purpose?
It was twofold:
(a) to resettle Jerusalem,
and (b) to reestablish pure worship
—the pure worship of Jehovah.
Now, Paul is telling the Corinthians,
“We have to work together with Jehovah God.”
And he’s been reading Isaiah 49:8, 9.
What’s the connection?
Well, to rehabilitate a land
that had lain desolate for 70 years
would require a lot of work.
So those who agreed to leave Babylon
and come back to Jerusalem
would have to be hard workers,
but it wasn’t enough to be a hard worker.
To be successful, they would have
to be working along with Jehovah God,
because Jehovah God had a purpose
in bringing them back to Babylon.
It wasn’t just so that they
could come back to Jerusalem.
His purpose was to get
his pure worship reestablished.
So they were going to have
to work together with him.
Now, as The Watchtower pointed out recently,
it would be a sacrifice on the part of some
to leave Babylon and go back to Jerusalem.
Why?
Well, do you remember what Jehovah
had told the Israelites,
the Jews,
when they went to Babylon?
“Build houses and live in them.
Plant gardens and eat their fruit.”
Pray for the peace of the city
because “in its peace you will have peace.”
So life in Babylon,
captivity in Babylon,
wasn’t totally like slavery in Egypt.
In fact, some Jews got rich in Babylon.
Some became buyers
and sellers of precious gems.
And it’s thought that it was in Babylon
that the Jews learned trade and commerce
—how to buy and sell so well.
They didn’t learn that
on the pastures of Judah; that’s for sure.
And so it would’ve been
a sacrifice on the part of some
to leave Babylon and go to Jerusalem.
Hard workers were willing to do that.
Now,
the returning Jews started out very well,
but they ran into problems.
They ran into problems
with the building of the temple.
And as a result,
they continued working
but they weren’t working
together with Jehovah anymore.
They were building houses
and decorating them;
they were starting a business;
they were looking after their own families,
their own lives.
Now, could it be
that some of them had reasoned:
‘I’ve sacrificed enough;
‘I’ve left a comfortable life in Babylon
to come here
‘to this wasteland,
‘and that’s a lot more
than my brothers in Babylon have done.
‘I’ve sacrificed enough.
‘It’s time to look after my own family,
look after my own children.
Let the young people do their share.’
Well, we don’t know
what they were reasoning.
But the fact is
that part “b” of Jehovah’s purpose
—to reestablish pure worship—
was not being fulfilled.
So they were not working together
with Jehovah God.
The application:
All of you have made considerable sacrifices
in order to go to your present assignments.
Most of you were not born
in your assignments;
you went there of your own volition.
And you made a lot of sacrifices.
You learned another language;
you made financial, material sacrifices;
and so on.
But, you know, there’s a danger.
As we get older,
there can be a tendency for us to feel:
‘You know, I’ve sacrificed enough.
Why not let the young people do more?’
—especially when we see those
our own age who are taking it easy.
‘They’ll be in the new world.
Why do I have to work so hard?’
And so if we’re not careful,
we could lose sight
of the purpose of our training,
and we don’t want to do that.
Now, there’s a second application
to Isaiah 49,
and we know that because of the way
Paul puts it in 2 Corinthians 6.
Let’s go back there, 2 Corinthians 6.
And you can leave your Bibles open there
because for the rest of this discussion
we’re going to be considering
verses in 2 Corinthians 6.
Now, I’m going to read verse 2,
and see if you can figure out how we know
that Paul sees more than one application
to this scripture at Isaiah 49.
Verse 2:
“For he says:
“‘In an acceptable time I heard you,
and in a day of salvation I helped you.’
“Look!
“Now is [not acceptable, but]
“the especially acceptable time.
“Look!
Now is the day of salvation.”
You got it, didn’t you?
The definite and indefinite articles.
And when Paul is thinking
about the deliverance
of the Jews from Babylon,
quoting Jehovah God,
it’s “an acceptable time”;
it’s “a day of salvation.”
That was one application of the prophecy.
But now Paul is telling the Christians
that there’s something much better:
“Now is the especially acceptable time . . .
Now is the day of salvation.”
Yes, when the Jews
were delivered from Babylon,
pure worship was going
to be reestablished.
But what about today?
What about the work
Christians are doing today?
The everlasting future of people is involved.
And so if workers were needed back then,
when the Jews were leaving Babylon,
how hard should we be working today?
The lives of people are at stake,
and so no matter how busy you are,
no matter whether you are at Bethel,
don’t neglect the field.
Have a zealous share in the preaching work.
This is the work
that Jesus commanded us to do.
Jesus never spent a day at Bethel.
He’ll be very interested
in what you do at Bethel,
but he’ll be even more interested
in what you’re doing in the field.
Now, let’s focus
on Jehovah’s undeserved kindness.
We talk about the undeserved kindness
of being able to come to Gilead
and get this special training.
But, now, what was the purpose?
Why were you selected
to come to Gilead
and get this training?
Well,
you’re probably wondering that yourselves.
You were selected, first of all,
because you’re workers;
you’re hard workers.
But you were also chosen
because we believe
that you are going to use
your training unselfishly
for the benefit of others.
And how many speakers
on this platform today have made that point?
The training is not
to be kept to yourselves.
You’ve been trained
so that you
can unselfishly benefit other people.
You have been trained
to be more effective
in serving others.
Now, when you return home,
we know that your friends
and fellow workers
are going to be very pleased.
Your humility
—you’re not going
to be flashing your diploma
either literally or figuratively;
you’re not going
to be flaunting your knowledge;
you’re not going to be correcting
every small mistake and procedure.
You’re going to earn the respect
of your fellow workers
because of your humility
and because of your willingness
to work alongside them
and to do whatever needs to be done.
In fact,
the most powerful lesson that you teach
may not be in anything you say,
but it may be in your humility
and your willingness to work humbly
along with any arrangement
or any assignment that is given you.
In this you’ll be copying Paul’s example.
If you’ve kept your Bible open
at 2 Corinthians 6,
we’re going to be reading
a few more verses.
Now, Paul mentions a lot
in verses 4 to 6.
A lot is involved in humbly serving
the needs of our brothers.
And we’re going
to just highlight a few of these.
Verses 4 to 6, Paul writes:
“But in every way we recommend
ourselves as God’s ministers,
“by the endurance of much,
“by tribulations, by times of need,
“by difficulties,
“by beatings,
by imprisonments, by riots,
“by hard work,
“by sleepless nights,
by times without food;
“by purity, by knowledge,
“by patience, by kindness,
by holy spirit.”
Now, look at verse 4.
One of the things
Paul mentions is “endurance.”
“We recommend ourselves
as God’s ministers, by . . . endurance.”
Now, that’s something
all of us need to give attention to.
Suppose that you were serving
at Bethel before Gilead,
and you really, really enjoyed
your work assignment.
Well, you’ve been away for five months.
What do you suppose
has been happening while you were away?
Someone else got that work assignment.
And you know what?
He’s doing very, very well
at that assignment.
In fact,
it may be that the department
is not going to want to have
you back when you return.
And so you’re given another assignment,
one that you don’t enjoy so much.
Now, someone else might say,
“I’ve been trained at Gilead for this?”
But not you,
you’re going to have the attitude,
‘Well, if the work needs to be done,
why shouldn’t I do it?’
You see, your humility
is going to be so appreciated.
And remember,
other Bethelites are watching you.
They’re intelligent.
They know that you’d have probably liked
to have had your old job back,
but your humility
in cheerfully applying yourself
to whatever you’re given to do
is going to make
a tremendous impression on them.
In fact, you know what?
You’re going to go up ten points
in their estimation.
“Well,” you say,
“all right, I have to do it,
but do I really have to be
cheerful about it?”
Yes, you do.
That’s a requirement.
And you know why?
At the regional convention last summer,
do you remember
the definition of endurance?
It’s not just a matter of sticking it out
until something better comes along.
But we have to be cheerful;
we have to do
what we’re asked to do
with a happy, positive attitude
—not always looking
for additional responsibility,
more privileges,
a different work assignment—
being happy
with what we are given to do.
Well, you folks understand that,
and we love you for it.
Now, in the same verse, verse 4,
Paul mentions “difficulties.”
And there will be problems
in the field;
there’ll be problems
at Bethel from time to time.
And the question is this,
Will you be the type of person
that fellow Bethelites
or those in the congregation
will want to talk to
when difficulties arise,
because whenever they talk to you,
they always feel better after?
You have such a good, positive attitude.
Well, we know you will.
Now, in verse 5,
Paul mentions “hard work.”
When brothers and sisters
get together for a gathering,
we know that you’re going to be
one of the ones in the kitchen
or one of the ones who
stays behind after to help clean up.
You’re going to be volunteering
to help clean the Kingdom Hall,
or you’re going to volunteer
for a local construction project.
You’re going to be known
as someone who enjoys serving others,
someone who loves
to get his hands dirty
—not someone who shows up
in a lovely white suit
when there’s work to be done.
Or if you have to wear
a lovely white suit,
at least bring a change of clothes
so that you can roll up your sleeves
and help with the work.
Well, notice in verse 6,
Paul mentions “purity.”
We would certainly never want to think
that as long as we work hard
in our assignment at Bethel or in the field,
Jehovah will turn a blind eye
to any immorality on our part.
Jehovah has no blind eye.
Now, Paul mentions
“kindness” in the same verse.
Now, some of you brothers
may get into a position of authority.
And the question is,
How are you going to use your authority?
The proper use of authority
is to help others,
to benefit others.
And you will never ever
use your authority vindictively
to punish someone
or get even for some slight,
perhaps holding someone back
from a deserved privilege
just because he offended you.
That’s not the way we use authority.
In the same verse,
Paul talks about “holy spirit.”
And that’s going to help you
to get along with others.
It’ll help elders and department heads
to work peacefully with one another,
to speak kindly and respectfully
to one another,
to listen
—to really listen—
to one another.
Now, you may have a little difference
with someone
in the congregation or at Bethel.
Then you hear that person
give a morning worship comment
or a fine public talk in the congregation,
and his eyes shine
as he’s talking about the truth.
You’re sitting there,
you observe that,
and it hits you that this man
—this man that I’m having a problem with—
really, really loves Jehovah;
and so do you.
You have that in common.
So now,
can’t you get the rest to work?
Now, if we walk by the spirit,
as we heard from Brother Samuelson,
we’ll be careful not to lobby
or push our own agenda,
because Jehovah
might not agree with our agenda.
And we’d never want to make
the other elders or the department feel
that they can’t make
any decision without our input.
We would never want them
to feel that in our absence
we would have to go back and revisit
every decision that has been made,
as if they can’t do a single thing
without us because we’re so clever
—we’ve graduated from Gilead.
No, we realize that they
have Jehovah’s spirit too.
So don’t be too impressed
with your own ideas.
I’m going to repeat that.
Don’t be too impressed
with your own ideas.
When no Scriptural principle is involved,
we’ll be willing to yield
if the majority of the elders make a decision
that we don’t particularly agree with.
So when that happens, don’t pout
—pray!
Ask Jehovah to bless
the decision that was made,
you know, the decision
that you didn’t particularly agree with.
Ask Jehovah to bless that decision,
and ask Jehovah to help you
to be fully supportive of the decision
—and that way you’ll be working
along with Jehovah’s purpose.
And what’s his purpose?
To have a happy group of elders
serving the needs
of their brothers and sisters.
If the elders are happy,
no doubt the congregation
and the Bethel family will be happy.
Be resolved to allow nothing and no one
to interfere with your unity
on the body of elders.
I’m going to repeat that.
Be resolved to allow nothing or no one
to interfere with your unity
on the body of elders.
Well, you know all these things.
These were just helpful reminders.
Your time at Gilead
has been a dream come true,
but now it’s time to use your training
to be of service to others.
Remember,
you have been trained for a purpose.
And the purpose:
to be more effective
in unselfishly serving others.
Never ever forget the purpose.
And may God bless you.
Well, we sincerely thank you,
Brother Splane,
for those words of wisdom
spoken from experience.
Well, now we’re privileged
to hear greetings
from our brothers and sisters
at many different branches
who are thinking
about us here today.
In fact,
can you imagine,
25 different branches
have sent greetings.
So let me just share
a few of these with you.
Of course,
we can’t share all of them,
but perhaps I can just epitomize
some of the messages.
For example, Armenia says:
“We are delighted to see how Jehovah
is training more brothers and sisters
“to take on additional responsibilities
in his organization
for the advancement of Kingdom interests.”
Benin says:
“We know that the Gilead School has left
“an indelible impression on your mind
“—with memories
you’ll carry along all your life—
“and on your heart
“—with a deeper appreciation and joy
in serving Jehovah
in a closer relationship with him.”
Bulgaria says:
“We wish all of you
much joy on this special day.
“Bulgaria branch keenly anticipates
the arrival of one couple from this class.
“We pray for Jehovah’s blessing
on you students
wherever he asks you to serve him.”
Italy said:
“‘With what will I repay Jehovah
for all the good he has done for me?’
“We are sure
that these words well describe
“the feelings of you students
of the 142nd class.
“We rejoice with you in this special occasion
“and give thanks to Jehovah
for the spiritual enrichment you enjoyed.
“We are confident it will be
of great value to yourselves
“and to the ones you’ll be sharing
it with in the days to come.
“Please receive
the warmest brotherly affection
of the brothers in Italy.”
And finally,
Kazakhstan wrote and said:
“We would like to take this opportunity
to pass our love and greetings
“to the 142nd class of Gilead
on this graduation day.
“We are confident that they
will never forget these past five months
“as they have walked
hand in hand with our God, Jehovah,
“journeying page by page
through his Word, the Bible.
Our thoughts and prayers
are with them on this momentous day.”
Isn’t that wonderful?
Well, now, we know that many of you
like to hear the statistics about the class.
So let me share with you some
of the details about this class—the 142nd.
So the class was made up
of nine single brothers
and four single sisters.
The average age
of the students was 44.2.
The average years in the truth was 28,
and the average years
in the full-time ministry was 21.6.
So, obviously, a very mature class.
What a pleasure it’s been
to have them here at Patterson!
Well, now we’re ready
for the presentation of the diplomas.
The part that we
always look forward to so much.
And Brother Ken Flodin,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
is going to assist me
in presenting them.
We have Brother and Sister Ajiboye.
They’ll be returning to Russia.
And this is Brother and Sister Alm.
They’ll be returning to Nigeria.
Brother and Sister Andreopoulos,
they’ll return to Greece.
This is Brother Antoine.
He’s going back to Haiti.
Brother Bilous is returning to Ukraine.
And this is Brother and Sister Cripps.
They’ll return to Peru.
Sister de Chavez is returning
to the Philippines.
And this is Brother Dergevorkian.
He’s going back to Armenia.
Brother and Sister Deschênes
are returning to Canada.
Brother and Sister Francioli
are going back to Italy.
And now we have
Brother and Sister Hoffmann.
Now, Brother and Sister Hoffmann
have been serving
in the circuit work in France,
but they’re receiving
a new assignment today.
As some of you may know,
the Service Committee
has set up some language circuits
that span all of Europe
in order to try to move
different languages fields ahead.
And so Brother Hoffmann will be taking up
a circuit in the Romany field
that will span several countries in Europe.
Sister Huber.
Sister Huber has been serving
as a special pioneer in Paraguay,
but now she is going to take up
a field missionary assignment
in a country where
there is a great need for missionaries
—the United States.
Brother Hurley.
Brother Hurley has been serving
at the branch office,
as you heard, in Australasia.
But now he’s going
to take up a new assignment
at the branch in Papua New Guinea.
And Brother and Sister Jaggernauth
are going to return to Trinidad and Tobago.
Brother Kalaycı is returning to Turkey.
This is Brother Killgore.
Brother Killgore has been serving
at the branch office in Canada,
but now he’ll be taking up
a new assignment
at the branch office in Mexico,
the Central America branch.
Brother and Sister Maraia
are returning to Britain.
And Brother and Sister Mendías
are returning to Central America.
This is Brother and Sister Mensah.
They’re returning to Liberia.
Sister Ngoma is returning to Tanzania.
This is Brother Niyongere.
He’s returning to Burundi.
Brother and Sister Palonen.
Now,
Brother and Sister Palonen have been serving
for some years
at the branch office in Finland,
but now they’re receiving a new assignment
to serve at the branch office in Bulgaria.
Next is Brother and Sister Szewczyk.
They’ll be going back to Central Europe.
Brother Tamayo returns to Ecuador.
And Brother and Sister Tapia
will also be going back to Ecuador.
Now, Brother Thomas has been serving
at the branch office in Central Europe,
but now he’s going to take up
a new assignment
in the branch office in Benin.
And this is our last couple,
Brother and Sister Wikner.
They’re returning to Scandinavia.
Now that all of our students
have officially graduated,
would you like to see now
the 142nd class
of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead?
Brother Sebastian Hoffmann
has been selected to read the class letter.
“Dear Governing Body and Bethel Family:
“In one
of the most beautiful inspired expressions
“of praise to Jehovah,
“King David of old said:
“‘And now, O our God, we thank you
and praise your beautiful name.’
(1 Chron. 29:13)
“With those words,
at the close of his 40-year reign,
“David expressed
his lifelong feelings for Jehovah.
“And here we are,
the 142nd class of Gilead,
“at the close
of our 20-week course of Bible education,
“with those very same feelings.
“As we have submitted to Jehovah’s molding
of our hearts and minds,
“we have come to appreciate more than ever
“the beauty
of the oldest personality in the universe
“—Jehovah’s personality.
“We have chosen it
to be our own new personality.
“We have deeply appreciated
being taught by you,
“members of the Governing Body.
“Despite your busy and demanding schedules,
“you made time to travel to Patterson
“to share with us your love
for Jehovah’s name and for his Word.
“We heard it in your expressions,
and we saw it
“in your eyes.
“The way you welcomed us
into your beautiful new home in Warwick
“and gave us of your time
will live long in our memory.
“You strengthened our trust
and respect for Jehovah’s organization.
“Our prayer is that Jehovah give you brothers
“the holy spirit and energy you need
“to carry out your assignments
as the end draws near.
“Throughout our schooling,
“we felt the power of God’s Word
at work in us students.
“The Bible has proven to be a mirror
“in which we have examined ourselves.
“You, our dear instructors,
“held that mirror up
in front of us every day.
“With kindness, love,
“patience, and reassurance,
“you helped us to look for attitudes,
thoughts, and inclinations
“within ourselves that are not
a reflection of Jehovah.
“We have come to see who we really are,
“who Jehovah wants us to be,
“and how we can bridge that gap.
“Every step of the way,
you guided us with God’s Word
“and never your own opinion.
“What a lesson that has been to us all!
“In imitation of the apostle Paul,
“you imparted to us
not only the good news of God
“but also your very selves,
“because we became beloved to you,
“and you have become beloved to us.
—1 Thess. 2:8.
“As a class,
“we must acknowledge
that part of the education we received
“has been outside of the Gilead classroom.
“From the very first day we arrived
“at the Patterson Educational Center,
“our education began.
“The friends at reception, our hosts,
“and the entire Bethel family
“immediately made us feel at home.
“We experienced the same love
and brotherly affection
“when we visited Wallkill and Warwick.
“Over the last five months,
“we learned much observing you:
“how you responded to direction
“that you received
and humbly followed through,
“how you reacted to the loss of members
“of the Bethel family in death,
“and how quick you were
“to offer comfort and assistance.
“Thank you for your constancy
“in making yourselves available for us.
“How can we ever forget
the line of cars of Bethelites
“queuing up outside our residence building,
“ready and willing to take us to the meetings
“and in the ministry every week?
“You really went the extra mile for us.
“As we leave this awesome place,
“we take with us
“an unforgettable
and rich spiritual heritage.
“What will we do with it?
“Our determination is the same
as that of King David.
“At Psalm 145:1, 2,
he promised Jehovah:
“‘I will exalt you, O my God the King,
“‘I will praise your name forever and ever.
“‘All day long I will praise you;
I will praise your name forever and ever.’
“May the blessing of Jehovah our God
“be upon all those
who praise his name forever.
“With all our appreciation,
we love you very much.
Your brothers,
142nd class of Gilead.”
We thank you very much
for that beautiful, beautiful letter.
Well, we’ve come
to the concluding remarks
of our Gilead program.
At the beginning,
we discussed the importance
of praying to Jehovah to open our eyes
and help us see clearly his Word.
You know,
over time because of imperfection,
our vision tends to deteriorate.
And as a result, we may have to
constantly be seeking a brighter light
in order for us
to see things more clearly.
Well, in the same way,
as you will deal
with your own imperfections,
as you’ll deal
with the imperfections of others,
as you’ll cope with health problems
and a host of other things that will come
to all of us
as we live in this system,
you’ll need to look back
to God’s Word again
and again and again.
In a sense,
to turn up the light
so that you can see clearly
what Jehovah’s will will be
in so many areas of your life.
And at times,
you may scratch your head and say,
“Jehovah, I just don’t know what to do.”
But if you do not tire
of returning over
and over again to God’s Word,
he will show you the way.
And the words of Joshua chapter 1
will prove to be true in your case.
Let’s read this together.
In Joshua 1:7,
this is what Jehovah said to Joshua:
“Only be courageous and very strong,
“and observe carefully the entire Law
that Moses my servant commanded you.
“Do not deviate from it
either to the right or to the left,
“so that you may act wisely
wherever you go.
“This book of the Law
should not depart from your mouth,
“and you must read it
in an undertone day and night,
“in order to observe carefully
all that is written in it;
“for then your way will be successful
“and then you will act wisely.
“Have I not commanded you?
“Be courageous and strong.
“Do not be struck with terror or fear,
for Jehovah your God
is with you wherever you go.”
Well, please know that the good wishes,
the hopes, the prayers
of all of us go with you today
for your success in your assignment.
And may Jehovah God
be with you wherever you go.
Well, I know you’ll want
to know about our attendance.
We had many sites tied in today.
So here are the attendance figures.
For Canada, we had 838.
In the United States:
At Patterson, we had 3,469;
in Brooklyn, 328;
at Fishkill, 1,030;
at Wallkill, 2,502;
at Warwick, 1,571;
in Curaçao, 71;
in Florida,
in Fort Lauderdale, 137;
in Jamaica, 14;
in Mira Loma, we’re not certain
because the program
will not yet start for a few more minutes
(but we’ll find out in due time);
and in Puerto Rico, 149.
So that gives us a grand total of 10,109.
Well, brothers,
we’ve had a wonderful program today.
We have one last chance
to participate in the program
by standing now
and singing song number 150,
“Seek God for Your Deliverance.”
And then following the song,
Brother Herman van Selm,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
will offer our concluding prayer.
That’s song 150.